So now let's go back to our portfolio and work on this.
Obviously, we don't want these projects go here and get rid of that.
So what is are we going to do?
Well, we want to make sure that we have a list scrollable list that is that looks like this and that
list is going to be fed with this data that it's been passed, as you see here, OK?
So how do we do this?
Well, first of all, we need a way in which we are able to create a list, right?
A visual list such as this, which will have these cards as you see here, right?
That's what we want to do.
But let's start one thing at a time.
First, let's accomplish one thing, which is how do we create a scrollable list?
Well, luckily, it's really simple and compose.
All you have to do is call this lazy column.
OK, now the reason why we want to use a lazy column is twofold.
One, you get the scroll ability of the list, whatever content you're going to be passing in.
Number two, you also will get the advantage of recyclable views, which is really important, especially
as you are passing in, for instance, a lot of data through.
You want to use a lazy column.
Lazy column will know how to recycle the views as they are being displayed.
So lazy column, if you're an Android developer, is like a recycler view.
But simpler.
OK, so we can pass contents right away like that?
Or we can just use a lambada.
OK, so like this and while.
So inside here now the lazy column will require a few things, one of which is the data in this case
going to go through items.
I'm going to use items like this because we're going to be passing a list of items.
So there are different versions of this lambda or methods.
So I'm going to use that one.
And inside here, I'm going to pass.
Of course, our data as such.
Once you do that, you notice, then we can pass here a parameter which is going to be each item of
our data.
So I'm going to call it an item like that, and I can use either one of these helps that I have here
to say these are just parameters that are being passed through our lambda again, lambda.
If you've never heard of what a lambda is, it's OK in this case.
Just think of it as a function that is anonymous and we can pass items through it, but in a more concise
way.
So I'm going to just use that first option there.
So this means now this item is going to be a string because what would happen here?
We're passing this data, which is what are we passing through, you know, items there?
And when that happens, what happens is we are sifting through and getting each one of these items,
which we have 100 strings in our list that we're passing when we call portfolio.
Then to those, each one of them are going to be held in this item object.
OK, so now I can do whatever I want.
In this case, I'm just going to go ahead and say text just for now and pass the item like this because
items are string and that will work anyway.
You can see now because we're inside of a portfolio here and we that's inside of content, which means
we're calling it here, right?
And this has a preview.
We can see that we have Project one, two and three.
This is really good.
So it's working.
So if I add more projects this copy, there's a few times as such.
You can go ahead and refresh and you can see we have all this project.
Of course, some numbers are being repeated.
That's OK.
But you get the idea.
This is really good.
Just make sure that everything is aligned like that.
OK, so it's working.
Obviously, this is far from what we really want it to happen, but it is progress.
So let's start small.
Now let's go back to understand the whole idea of what are we trying to do?
So what are we trying to do here is that when we click this portfolio button, in fact, when they first
run this app and they come to this page, they being the users, we're not going to show anything.
So this is going to be hidden, right?
It's not until the portfolio button is clicked that we are going to show this.
And when we click again portfolio, we don't hide it.
So we're going to toggle this event that happens one click and then if it's shown, Click Again is going
to hide this content area where we have the portfolios.
How do we do that?
OK.
So let's think a little bit through.
So if we go back to our button because this is where the action happens, right when we click, we don't
want this anymore because we understand that this works and that's all that we needed.
We want to make sure when this buttons clicked, then this content shows right whatever we have inside
of this content.
In this case, we have our portfolio here and we're passing project strings, right?
That's neat.
That's what needs to be shown.
So if that's the case, that means then we have to figure out a way in which we can control the toggling
of this button.
Meaning if we click, then we want to show it.
If it's showing our projects or being shown, then we want to hide that view.
That takes us to another concept, which again, we are going.
Who dive really deep into later again, we're just trying to get through this so we can see the basics
of compose.
So the concept here is very simple is that OK, we need to create a variable that will control or that
will keep this state.
It is a very crucial concept that will keep this state, whether it is false or true, true or false,
so that we can toggle back and forth this view here when the buttons clicked.
That just means then somewhere around here, I'm going to create a variable where say foul, say, button
clicked state.
Now this is not a simple variable.
This is a different kind of variable that is very important in compose, and we will see into more details
later.
What this variable must be able to do is to remember this state of the button.
And for that, we have a special syntax here we're going to see is equal to remember.
Oh, interesting.
Remember to pick the first one and I'm going to use the Lamp ID. Now, what is are we trying to remember
when you set that up to?
It's going to be a mutable state of a mouthful.
At first is going to be a false value as such.
OK, let's go ahead and think a little bit through this.
So what we're doing here, we're creating a button, click state, and we're going to want it to remember
this state, right?
We say, remember?
And it is indeed, of course, a function.
But in this case, a lambda.
That's why we have these curly braces.
And then inside we're setting up the mutable state of these is the value type that needs to remember,
which is the mutable state of and we passed.
The actual Typekit in this case is going to be a Boolean.
So true or false.
So in this case, we're saying at the beginning, what are we going to try to remember in the form of
this button?
Click Variable.
It's going to be a false Boolean, but it's very special here.
Who must do like this?
OK, so now we can use this now another thing you'll see you may end up having squiggly red lines between
who remember and also mutable state or both them.
All you have to do is to make the right point, so you have to right click and show context actions,
or it will tell you exactly that.
You need to import and go ahead and import, as we've done before.
It's very important, OK?
But in this case, here you see that I didn't have to do much because he just detected that I didn't.
I needed those libraries and went ahead and got it, in fact.
You can see somewhere we have their mutable state of and we have to remember if you have those issues
as make sure that you import as such.
All right.
Let's come back here.
So we have a button click state.
So where do we set it or use this?
Well, we use it inside of one click stadia is in the beginning.
Obviously, this button click state is going to be false, and that's fine because we don't want to
show anything.
OK?
So when we click on it, we're going to set it in one state button.
Click State, was it Dot?
Want to get the value right?
And going to set it to what I'm going to set it to true.
Because in the beginning it's always false.
But that's not all good.
This is going to be just one part of the equation.
I want to target between true or false, so I'm going to just put the whatever is this state, we just
get the opposite.
This is how we toggle it.
OK.
So meaning if it's true and going to set it true, but that's not the whole story because we don't want
it.
Just when you click said it's all true and then we're done right.
We want to be able to say, OK, when that button is clicked, we are going to toggle it.
So meaning we're going to take the value that is current, right?
When we just copy that and then we're going to make it the opposite of what it is.
So if the value is false, then we're going to toggle to true.
If you click again, it's going to be false.
So he's going to toggle back and forth.
This is how you do it.
OK, there we go.
So to see this, if it works, what I'm going to do here, then let's click here.
Make sure that we are outside of our button.
OK, portfolio is there.
So outside here, I'm going to say something.
If right?
Let's check if this is indeed true.
We can say if button clicks state that value is true, if we just leave as that, if that's true, if
it's true, then I'm going to go.
I say, call this content like this, it's going to show that content.
Else, I'm just going to go ahead and show nothing but to show nothing.
I'm going to say box such and pass nothing like this.
Let's see this true.
Let's go ahead and actually run this on an emulator and see, OK, so there we go.
Moment of truth.
If I click voila, we see all the project are showing and it could scroll up and down.
But since there aren't enough, there are filling out the entire space.
I don't see the scrolling, but it's OK if I click back is going to hide that.
All right, so it is working.
This is exactly what we wanted.
OK, so before we go, because this is again too long, I just want to go.
Again, what we did here, so we went ahead and created our content as we saw before, and we called
the portfolio passing data dummy data indicates just strength when we separated our code a little bit
to make it better.
We created the actual portfolio composable and passing the list.
And inside here we have the lazy column, which is corresponding to recycle view in Android development,
which this is still Android development, but a subset of another development, if you will.
This is composed, right?
So this takes care of everything.
You don't have to worry about adapters or all the things that we had to worry about in traditional Android
development.
And so we passed that data and this case just passing the strings as the row was, if you will.
So that's what it's happening inside here.
OK.
And so when we click the button, first of all, we created these mutable state in Remember here, so
it's a very special variable that will always remember a state of this Boolean.
And so what we did is when we clicked, we are going to toggle that button.
So if it's true, then it is going to be false when clicked in and vice versa.
And when that happens, we're going to attach if statement to say, OK, if it's true, the button state
is true.
That means you want the content to show which in this case, we're going to pull in the content else.
We're just going to have an empty box and hence you're able to see this wonderful effect there.
All right.
So we're making good progress, and I hope this is making sense.
If not, again, don't worry, we are going to go over this so many times.
You're going to be so, so tired and sick of me going over all of these great things.
But don't worry, I won't get you bored.
But this is what are we doing here?
Ladies and gentlemen, and I hope you are having lots of fun and that this is making some sense at least,
and I hope you're excited.